Agreement
﻿
Using MALT

MALT is offered by RACS to facilitate the following:

support for training, education and assessment
production of a personal case log
undertaking self-audit
undertaking peer-review audit
RACS does not warrant that use of MALT is appropriate in all cases, nor does RACS determine whether the data you submit is accurate or free from errors. 

Privacy and consent

Responsibility to comply with Privacy/Health Record laws when collecting and using patient data lies with each individual MALT user. For this reason, de-identified data should be routinely collected.

Certain Training Boards and Societies have nominated the collection of patient identifiers to facilitate logbook approval. Irrespective of this, MALT users should ensure there is prior patient consent obtained for the collection and use of personal, sensitive and health information.

RACS is not responsible for patient information collected and used in connection with MALT. Please refer to hospital and/or surgical practice privacy statements or patient information collection statement/admission documentation for more information.

Reports for training, assessment and education purposes

Some Training Boards and Societies mandate the use of MALT, whilst others accept reports from MALT (while not mandating) or do not accept reports from MALT. If MALT reports are accepted by a Training Board or Society, the logbook data (summary of procedure counts only) may be viewed on an ongoing basis.

Submission of required MALT reports for RACS Training Board review is to be done by MALT users unless specified. If there is a technical issue with accessing the required reports, the MALT Team can assist. Rotation and report submission dates and additional MALT information can be found here 

Data security

The MALT database is stored securely on a RACS server located in Melbourne, Australia, and is routinely backed up. However, RACS makes no warranty as to the inherent risk of data being subject to unauthorised access.

Your information and RACS database (Dynamics 365)

The RACS database (Dynamics 365) is the source of information enabling your access to MALT. To update personal details, please log in to the RACS website and update your information here. 

I Accept